---
layout: post
title: 'Rationalist group houses'
categories: links
tags: goal 
---





> David Schnarch, who wrote the book Passionate Marriage, likes to ask the couples he’s counselling this question:
> 
>  >    “Why do you think you shouldn’t be having the problems that you’re having?” 
> 
> These couples tend to feel that somehow they shouldn’t have <whatever problem they have>. Because they… should… have known better. Somehow.  
> 
> This line of thinking—which is also common in many domains outside of romantic relationships—is the exact same line of thinking that leads to the thought “if I had a do-over, I wouldn’t make the same mistake I did last time.” It’s a frame that leads one to think that somehow if you thought and planned hard enough, you could avoid making any mistakes. While it may be true that some amount of thinking and planning can avoid some amount of mistakes, unless you’re working with a situation you understand perfectly, then this is a foolish notion that will mostly just result in self-blame. It also implies that you have nothing to learn along the way.
> 
> Anyway, on Sept 30, 12016, I found myself having a problem that I felt like I shouldn’t be having, but then I found a new way of looking at not just the problem but the whole experience of having the problem.
> 
> And suddenly I got a saying that used to annoy me: “each setback is exactly the one you need for your learning right now”.
> 
> This annoyed me because viewed from one angle, how could that possibly be the case? How is the universe supposed to know? But that day it hit me like a bolt of lightning that it’s not that the universe throws you a perfectly-shaped problem for you—rather, you go around sculpting the universe into exactly the kinds of problems you don’t know how to solve. It’s that you are the thing that you’re trying to sort out, and so…. in each moment, whatever it is that you haven’t already solved is the next thing to figure out.
> 
> When I didn’t understand this, I would skeptically ask, “Well, how could every problem you encounter be exactly the one you need?” but now it’s tautologically obvious to me that the answer is “Because it’s exactly the one you encountered.”
> 
> And if you assume (as I used to) that such a process is anything like random, you might say “Come on! What are the odds of that?”
> 
> But it’s not random. Nor is it magic. It’s just that obviously, if you could have already mitigated a problem, with your existing knowledge, understanding, skills, habits, etc, then you would have, so the fact that you’re encountering it means it represents whatever is outside of your existing understanding.